Add Episode 1 Lesson Text (#35)
czi-catalystproject/hub-champion-training: episodes/introduction.md

:::{image} ../media/episodes/introduction/custom-env-1.png
:width: 100%
:alt: Screenshot of a hub login page using GitHub for authentication. Server options available include Shared Small: 1-4 CPU, 8-32 GB RAM, Small: 4 CPU, 32 GB RAM, Medium: 16 CPU, 128 GB RAM and Large: 64 CPU, 512 GB RAM.

:::

Images available by default include

- Handbook Authoring (JupyterLab user interface) – installed Python packages include `jupyter-book, jupyterlab_myst, ghp-import, numpy, matplotlib`
- [Jupyter DataScience](https://jupyter-docker-stacks.readthedocs.io/en/latest/using/selecting.html#jupyter-datascience-notebook) (JupyterLab user interface) – installed Python packages include `dask, h5py, pandas, scikit-learn, scipy, sympy`
- [Rocker Geospatial](https://rocker-project.org/images/versioned/rstudio.html) (RStudio user interface) – installed R packages include `ncdf4, proj4, raster, rgdal, rgeos, sf, sp`
- Other... – specify a custom JupyterLab/RStudio image

### Online Content

There are many ways to manage online content on the hub. For example 

> - users have access to their own filesystem and a home directory of up to 20 GB

Author: ```suggestion
- users have access to their own filesystem and a home directory of up to 10 GB
```

- Hub Champions can distribute data to all hub users in a shared directory

> - users can securely pull and push code to and from the hub using `gh-scoped-creds`.

Reviewer: Can you add a little more explanation about what `gh-scoped-creds` is here? Or, in the other direction, trim this down to, simply

> users can securely pull and push code to and from the hub

Author: Replaced with the word 'GitHub' in 6ea1a55228360b622e4b576687304291102c2763

> - users can securely pull and push code to and from the hub using `gh-scoped-creds`.

Author: ```suggestion
- users can securely pull and push code to and from the hub using GitHub.
```

This episode introduces the concept of a hub for interactive cloud computing and how a hub in the cloud can benefit the user communities a hub champion supports.

### How can interactive computing in the cloud benefit my community?

Interactive computing is a fundamental way in which researchers and educators use a computer program to perform tasks that include (but are not limited to)

- generating data from experiments or simulations, or gathering data from secondary sources
- processing and analysing data using statistical techniques and algorithms
- developing data-driven and/or mechanistic predictive models
- visualising results to graphically reveal insights.

Real-time interactivity helps information flow back and forth between the user and their work, creating a dynamic and productive environment for research and educational activity. Project Jupyter is an ecosystem of open-source tools that can provide a web-based interactive computational environment, in the form of "notebooks", for several languages, namely **Ju**lia, **Py**thon and **R** (hence the name Project **Jupy**te**r**). 

:::{image} ../media/episodes/introduction/interactive-computing.png
:width: 100%

> :alt: Cartoon depicting common computing use cases such as data collection, data processing and analysis, predictive modelling and data visualization.

Author: ```suggestion
:alt: Cartoon depicting common interactive computing use cases such as data collection, data processing and analysis, predictive modelling and data visualization.
```

:::

With the advent of "big data", many researchers and educators encounter limitations with using traditional methods for handling data on a local machine or laptop. The size and number of datasets prevalent in disciplines such as genomics, meteorology, healthcare, and environmental sciences, to name a few, are growing at an exponential rate, and consequently, the need for large-scale infrastructure to support continually intensive computational workflows also grows.

:::{image} ../media/episodes/introduction/cloud-computing.png
:width: 30%
:align: right
:alt: Icon depicting a cloud computing.

:::

> Cloud computing is one way of provisioning the system resources needed to meet this demand. This relies on the sharing of on-demand services usually provided by commercial entities such as AWS, Google Cloud and Microsoft Azure. Academics in research and education are often limited in their capacity to sustainably administrate cloud infrastructure at scale and may also wish to support open-source tools and vendor-agnostic infrastructure. 

Author: ```suggestion
Cloud computing is one way of provisioning the system resources needed to meet this demand. This relies on the sharing of on-demand services usually provided by commercial entities such as AWS, Google Cloud and Microsoft Azure. Academics in research and education are often limited in their capacity to sustainably administrate cloud infrastructure at scale and may also wish to support open-source tools and vendor-agnostic infrastructure to protect scientific reproducibility and encourage effective collaboration. 
```

> This is where a non-profit initiative such as [2i2c](https://2i2c.org/) can help. 2i2c specialises in managing open Jupyter architecture in the cloud specially designed for communities of practice in research and education using open-source tools that allow them to reproduce environments, code and data on different machines. Users can access large-scale compute and storage as needed and workflows are entirely reproducible and supported by using open-source technologies. 

Author: ```suggestion
This is where a non-profit initiative such as [2i2c](https://2i2c.org/) can help. 2i2c specialises in managing open Jupyter architecture in the cloud specially designed for communities of practice in research and education using open-source tools that allow them to reproduce environments, code and data on different machines. Users can access large-scale compute and storage as needed and workflows are entirely reproducible and supported by using community-driven, open-source technologies. 
```

> 

Reviewer: Add something here about how a hub can address the challenges that the learners' communities face?

Author: I've added this as an extra question in bb5081fa1ea6d998a156e2334e0b9a6a27cc8ac1

::::

## Next Steps

The next part of the training is a self-guided study of the following episodes

-. {ref}`episode-admin`
-. {ref}`episode-images`
-. {ref}`episode-data`.

> and concludes with an in-person episode covering {ref}`episode-troubleshoot`.

Reviewer: I don't think "in-person" is the right wording here. Maybe "a synchronous session"?

> and concludes with an in-person episode covering {ref}`episode-troubleshoot`.

Author: ```suggestion
and concludes with a synchronous session covering the episode {ref}`episode-troubleshoot`.
```

> To complete the self-study portion of the workshop, check that you can access the [2i2c Community Showcase Hub](https://showcase.2i2c.cloud) and write your answers to the exercises in our [collaborative note-taking document](#).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To complete the self-study portion of the workshop, you will need to be able to access the [2i2c Community Showcase Hub](https://showcase.2i2c.cloud). When working through the self-study sections of the workshop, write your answers to the exercises in our [collaborative note-taking document](#).
```

Reviewer: You may also want to add a sentence describing what learners should do if they find that they cannot access that Showcase Hub.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

:::important
If you cannot access the hub, please contact the training instructor.
:::

```

:::{card}
KEY POINTS
^^^

> - A hub is a 2i2c-managed JupyterHub in the cloud that provides a interactive computing service to users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A hub is a 2i2c-managed JupyterHub in the cloud that provides an interactive computing service to users
```
